Draft: Evolution of inline editing blog post (#853)
tinacms/tinacms.org: content/blog/evolution-of-inline-editing.md

Inline fields created in this fashion will be absolutely positioned on top of the referenced component and conform to its dimensions. This makes it possible for the field to appear as if it were replacing the layout component in the DOM without altering the markup.

In contrast to our first example, we define an `inlineComponent` key in our form configuration object. We've now added an inline editing component in the same manner as setting up sidebar editing!

We then call `useFieldRef` to acquire the ref that will be attached to our title element.

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/tina-ref-based-inline-editing-p8kx4?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark&view=split&editorsize=65"
     style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;"
     title="tina-inline-editing"
     allow="accelerometer; ambient-light-sensor; camera; encrypted-media; geolocation; gyroscope; hid; microphone; midi; payment; usb; vr; xr-spatial-tracking"
     sandbox="allow-forms allow-modals allow-popups allow-presentation allow-same-origin allow-scripts"
   ></iframe>

> ### Editing Routes

Reviewer: I believe @jeffsee55 is using another pattern on the cloud starter, than only loads Tina after auth, is that worth mentioning?

Author: I think that's made possible by having only sidebar editing. I think it's a lot trickier with inline editing.

We can create editing-specific routes if we are concerned about the performance implications of TinaCMS being bundled with a website. Frameworks like [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) will optimize Javascript bundles so that TinaCMS is not included on routes that don't need it.

The drawback of this approach is that we will need to duplicate aspects of our website's components between the normal view-only routes and the routes where TinaCMS is included.

## What's next?

> We'll be making it clear in our documentation and guides that the original inline editing approach and Ref-Based inline editing are still experimental.

Reviewer: What needs to be done here? Can we apply those documentation changes this week?

Author: @dwalkr @spbyrne I think we were going to try doing this on the cloud doc branch, were there any ideas for UI? I think a good first attempt could just be a prominent visual element placed at the top of each page's body

Reviewer 2: agreed on both counts! I've mentioned before that for Tina, marking something as experimental is not a downgrade so much as an implied guarantee that the other parts are more stable 😅

> Sidebar editing avoids most of the friction of integrating inline editing and provides many of the same usability wins. [Tina Cloud](/early-access/) auto-generates sidebar forms based on your content's schema and represents our current recommended best practices.

Reviewer: I would start by stating this positively in the introduction that we recommend sticking with sidebar editing for now in order to avoid any further breaking change, as we're still rethinking inline editing. 

We could link to the sidebar inline editing demo to point people to a working example.

Author: @DirtyF Added a paragraph to the introduction

> Stay tuned! (Or help out! TinaCMS is open-source and built with many hands. [Share an idea or solution](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/issues))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please do [share ideas, constraints or design patterns](https://github.com/tinacms/tinacms/issues) on how to bring a better visual editing experience to the Jamstack without sacrificing the codebase,  It's a discussion we need to have with the community.
```

We then call `useFieldRef` to acquire the ref that will be attached to our title element.

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/tina-ref-based-inline-editing-p8kx4?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark&view=split&editorsize=65"
     style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;"
     title="tina-inline-editing"
     allow="accelerometer; ambient-light-sensor; camera; encrypted-media; geolocation; gyroscope; hid; microphone; midi; payment; usb; vr; xr-spatial-tracking"
     sandbox="allow-forms allow-modals allow-popups allow-presentation allow-same-origin allow-scripts"
     class="wide"
   ></iframe>

### Editing Routes

We can create editing-specific routes if we are concerned about the performance implications of TinaCMS being bundled with a website. Frameworks like [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) will optimize Javascript bundles so that TinaCMS is not included on routes that don't need it.

The drawback of this approach is that we will need to duplicate aspects of our website's components between the normal view-only routes and the routes where TinaCMS is included.

## What's next?

> We'll be making it clear in our documentation and guides that the original inline editing approach and Ref-Based inline editing are still experimental.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We made it clear in our documentation and guides that the original inline editing approach and Ref-Based inline editing are still experimental and subject to further changes.
```
